# VID_E_OH!!!
### Group Members: Ziyad, Yunho, Maimuna, Bhavicka
## Project Name: Falcon News

## Project Description: 
### What is it?
The project is a parody of a news channel covering a mock new NYUAD policy.
### Overall Concept and Theme
We wanted to go for the tone of The Onion and apply it to a news channel such as Fox News, so we created our own Falcon News Channel. There would be a reporter in a studio covering a new breaking news which most NYUAD students would find relevant. In between, the news channel will show you a map of campus which will allow you to watch 3 students' interviews, and once they are done you can go back to the studio.
### Desired Experience
Through the whole experience, we wanted the user to get some laughs at both the absurdity of the parody but also the familiarity of it. We wanted to mock both news channels and some of the new policies from NYUAD we are prone to expecting at this point.
## Process: 
### Brainstorming
Initially we had a lot of ideas going in different directions, mostly focusing on funny "How To" videos. However, we felt like that concept might have been overused for the topics we were thinking of, and decided to come up with something fresh. Thus, our idea for a mock news channel was born, which kind of incorporated different categories listed in the video assignment. We quickly cemented the idea of what news we could do: NYUAD has announced a change in stipend distribution policy. To what now, you may think. Well, we decided to make it "relevant" and go with cryptocurrency, and give NYUAD its own "Falcon Coin" (inspired from Dogecoin). The school has managed to convince the UAE government that this doesn't count as actual money because it is so devalued, and hilarious reactions ensue from both the reporter and the students. Usually you wouldn't expect a news channel to be interactive, so we thought of having the map through which you could go to the different interview locations. A bonus feature we decided to add at the end was that the headlines at the side actually redirect you to dummy pages, just for a bit of extra interactivity.
### Implementation
We got a working script ready and divided it into the different scenes we wanted shot. We had decided that we would need to shoot in 4 locations: The studio and then somewhere around D2, the Palms and D1. We did exactly this, choosing the best location according to the crowd and lighting. For the studio we set up our equipment and rearranged some tables in a room inside the library. We decided that using a good phone camera would be good enough, and for picking up the audio we used a microphone Yunho had. For the studio recording, as it was shot in a sitting down position, we had a mobile stand hold our camera steady in place, but for the interviews we just went with someone holding the camera. We also decided that instead of asking friends (what are those) to play the different interviewees, we would just have Ziyad play all of them wearing different "disguises". The shooting went through smoothly and with minimal retakes, and we then started implementing it in a website while Yunho edited the videos through Adobe Premier Pro 2022. The website didn't have a fancy layout but it was inspired by most news channels, and the HTML and CSS was not very challenging to execute. Most of the visual editing was easy to do with Canva. The trickiest part was the map, which was supposed to pop up on screen after the first studio video played, show the different clickable locations and take you to them and then go back to the second studio clip. We we were running into a lot of issues with the clicking part initially and even considered changing the feature, but finally it worked by making the map an image pop-up and using coordinates of certain circular areas, using JavaScript and a mapping software. Once you press "Back to Studio", the map will be removed and the second studio clip will start playing instead of the first one.

## Reflection/Evaluation: 
Overall, we are really happy that we achieved everything that we set out to. We think the quality of the videos is as funny as we wanted, and the map was executed exactly like we wanted it to. Some technicalities could maybe have been better with the implementation, but those are just really specific finetuning details and we think the website in its current state is very well suited for its function too. We also had a lot of fun working on this project. As can be imagined, the script was hilarious to shoot and assignment involved a lot of laughter and bonding in the making, and I think that shows in the final product! :)
